33426 don't animate box model properties (#33933)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_animations/using_css_animations/index.md

### Making text slide across the browser window

> This basic example styles the {{HTMLElement("p")}} element using the {{cssxref("translate")}} and {{cssxref("scale")}} transition properties so that the text slides in from off the right edge of the browser window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This basic example styles a {{HTMLElement("p")}} element using the {{cssxref("translate")}} and {{cssxref("scale")}} transition properties so that the text slides in from off the right edge of the browser window.
```

@keyframes slidein {
  from {
    translate: 100vw;
    scale: 300%;
  }

  to {
    translate: 0vw;
    scale: 100%;
  }
}
```

> In this example the style for the {{HTMLElement("p")}} element specifies that the animation should take 3 seconds to execute from start to finish, using the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}} property, and that the name of the {{ cssxref("@keyframes")}} at-rule defining the keyframes for the animation sequence is named "slidein".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example the style for the {{HTMLElement("p")}} element specifies that the animation should take 3 seconds to execute from start to finish, using the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}} property, and that the name of the {{ cssxref("@keyframes")}} at-rule defining the keyframes for the animation sequence is "slidein".
```

> The keyframes are defined using the {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} at-rule. In this case, we have just two keyframes. The first occurs at 0% (using the alias `from`). Here, we configure the {{cssxref("translate")}} property of the element to be at 100% (that is, at the far right edge of the containing element), and the {{cssxref("scale")}} of the element to be 300% (or three times its default inline size). This causes the first frame of the animation to have the header drawn off the right edge of the browser window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, we have just two keyframes. The first occurs at 0% (using the alias `from`). Here, we configure the {{cssxref("translate")}} property of the element to be at 100% (that is, at the far right edge of the containing element), and the {{cssxref("scale")}} of the element to be 300% (or three times its default inline size). This causes the first frame of the animation to have the header drawn off the right edge of the browser window.
```

We already say that in the previous paragraph

> In this case, we have just two keyframes. The first occurs at `0%` (using the alias `from`). Here, we configure the {{cssxref("translate")}} property of the element to be at `150vw` (that is, beyond the far right edge of the containing element), and the {{cssxref("scale")}} of the element to be 200% (or two times its default inline size), causing the paragraph to be twice as wide as it's `<body>` containing block. This causes the first frame of the animation to have the header drawn off the right edge of the browser window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, we have just two keyframes. The first occurs at `0%` (using the alias `from`). Here, we configure the {{cssxref("translate")}} property of the element to be at `150vw` (that is, beyond the far right edge of the containing element), and the {{cssxref("scale")}} of the element to be 200% (or two times its default inline size), causing the paragraph to be twice as wide as its `<body>` containing block. This causes the first frame of the animation to have the header drawn off the right edge of the browser window.
```

> The second (and final) keyframe occurs at 100% (using the alias `to`). The {{cssxref("translate")}} is set to 0% and the {{cssxref("scale")}} of the element is set to 100%. This causes the header to finish its animation flush against the left edge of the content area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second (and final) keyframe occurs at 100% (using the alias `to`). The {{cssxref("translate")}} property is set to 0% and the {{cssxref("scale")}} of the element is set to 100%. This causes the header to finish its animation flush against the left edge of the content area.
```

> The second (and final) keyframe occurs at 100% (using the alias `to`). The {{cssxref("translate")}} property is set to 0% and the {{cssxref("scale")}} of the element is set to 100%. This causes the header to finish its animation flush against the left edge of the content area.

Reviewer: The trouble with this example is that it doesn't behave as described. The size animates, but the position doesn't.

I did some testing and got it to work as described by animating `transform: translateX(100%);` to `transform: translateX(0%);`

Author: ah, because i am growing the text, from a default center origin, it was growing in both directions, to 3x the viewport, so is "moving left" by 150% Fixed (in my next commit).

> The second (and final) keyframe occurs at `100%` (using the alias `to`). The {{cssxref("translate")}} property is set to `0%` and the {{cssxref("scale")}} of the element is set to `1` which is `100%`. This causes the header to finish its animation in its default state, flush against the left edge of the content area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second keyframe occurs at `100%` (using the alias `to`). The {{cssxref("translate")}} property is set to `0%` and the {{cssxref("scale")}} of the element is set to `1`, which is `100%`. This causes the header to finish its animation in its default state, flush against the left edge of the content area.
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("Making_text_slide_across_the_browser_window","100%","250")}}

### Adding another keyframe animation

> Let's add another keyframe to the previous example's animation. Let's say we want Alice's name to turn pink and grow and then shrink back to its original size and color as it moves from right to left. While we could change the {{cssxref("font-size")}}, changing any properties that impact the box model negatively impacts performance. Instead, we wrap her name in a {{htmlelement("span")}} and then scale an assign a color to that separately. That requires adding a second animation impacting only the span:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's add another keyframe to the previous example's animation. Let's say we want Alice's name to turn pink and grow and then shrink back to its original size and color as it moves from right to left. While we could change the {{cssxref("font-size")}}, changing any properties that impact the box model negatively impacts performance. Instead, we wrap her name in a {{htmlelement("span")}} and then scale and assign a color to that separately. That requires adding a second animation impacting only the `<span>`:
```

### Adding another keyframe

> Let's add another keyframe to the previous example's animation. Let's say we want the header size to increase as it moves from right to left for a while, then to decrease back to its original size. While we could change the {{cssxref("font-size")}}, changing any properties that impact the box model negatively impact performance. Instead we scale the {{cssxref("::first-line")}} separately. That requires adding a second animation impacting only the header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's add another keyframe to the previous example's animation. Let's say we want the header size to grow and then shrink back to its original size as it moves from right to left. While we could change the {{cssxref("font-size")}}, changing any properties that impact the box model negatively impacts performance. Instead, we scale the {{cssxref("::first-line")}} separately. That requires adding a second animation impacting only the header:
```

  animation-duration: 3s;
  animation-name: slidein;
}
p span {
  display: inline-block;
  animation-duration: 3s;
  animation-name: growshrink;
}

@keyframes slidein {
  from {
    translate: 100vw;
    scale: 300%;
  }

  to {
    translate: 0vw;
    scale: 100%;
  }
}

@keyframes growshrink {
  25%,
  75% {
    scale: 100%;
  }

  50% {
    scale: 200%;
    color: magenta;
  }
}
```

```html
<p>
  The Caterpillar and <span>Alice</span> looked at each other for some time in silence: at
  last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed her in a
  languid, sleepy voice.
</p>
```

> This tells the browser the name should be normal for the first and last 25% of the animation, but turn pink while being scaled up and back down again in the middle.

Author: ```suggestion
This tells the browser the name should be normal for the first and last 25% of the animation, but turn pink while being scaled up and back down again in the middle. We set the spans's {{cssxref("display")}} property to `inline-block` as the `transform` properties have no effect on non-replaced {{glossary("inline-level content")}}.
```

> This tells the browser the name should be normal for the first and last 25% of the animation, but turn pink while being scaled up and back down again in the middle. We set the spans's {{cssxref("display")}} property to `inline-block` as the `transform` properties have no effect on non-replaced {{glossary("inline-level content")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tells the browser the name should be normal for the first and last 25% of the animation, but turn pink while being scaled up and back down again in the middle. We set the `<span>` element's {{cssxref("display")}} property to `inline-block` as the `transform` properties do not affect non-replaced {{glossary("inline-level content")}}.
```

Reviewer: Also, same comment about the `translate` animation on the paragraph not really doing what is described in the first example.

  animation-duration: 3s;
  animation-name: slidein;
}
p span {
  display: inline-block;
  animation-duration: 3s;
  animation-name: growshrink;
}

@keyframes slidein {
  from {
    translate: 150vw 0;
    scale: 200% 1;
  }

  to {
    translate: 0 0;
    scale: 100% 1;
  }
}

@keyframes growshrink {
  25%,
  75% {
    scale: 100%;
  }

  50% {
    scale: 200%;
    color: magenta;
  }
}
```

We've added a {{htmlelement("span")}} around "Alice":

```html
<p>
  The Caterpillar and <span>Alice</span> looked at each other for some time in
  silence: at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and
  addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.
</p>
```

> This tells the browser the name should be normal for the first and last 25% of the animation, but turn pink while being scaled up and back down again in the middle. We set the spans's {{cssxref("display")}} property to `inline-block` as the `transform` properties have no effect on non-replaced {{glossary("inline-level content")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tells the browser the name should be normal for the first and last 25% of the animation, but turn pink while being scaled up and back again in the middle. We set the spans's {{cssxref("display")}} property to `inline-block` as the `transform` properties do not affect non-replaced {{glossary("inline-level content")}}.
```

</p>
```

> This tells the browser that for the first and last 25% of the animation, the first line should be normal, but scale it up and back in the middle of the animation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tells the browser the paragraph should be normal for the first and last 25% of the animation, but scaled up and back down again in the middle.
```

Reviewer: BTW, when I look at the preview page, this example just looks the same as the first example.

We'll modify the sliding text example to output some information about each animation event when it occurs, so we can get a look at how they work.

> We've included the same keyframe animation, start with creating the CSS for the animation. This animation will last for 3 seconds, be called "slidein", repeat 3 times, and alternate direction each time. In the {{cssxref("@keyframes")}}, the scale and translation are manipulated along the x-axis to make the element slide across the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've included the same keyframe animation as the previous example. This animation will last 3 seconds, be called "slidein", repeat 3 times, and travel in an alternate direction each time. In the {{cssxref("@keyframes")}}, the scale and translation are manipulated along the x-axis to make the element slide across the screen.
```

#### Adding the CSS

> We start with creating the CSS for the animation. This animation will last for 3 seconds, be called "slidein", repeat 3 times, and alternate direction each time. In the {{cssxref("@keyframes")}}, the x-axis scale and translation are manipulated to make the element slide across the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start with creating the CSS for the animation. This animation will last for 3 seconds, be called "slidein", repeat 3 times, and alternate direction each time. In the {{cssxref("@keyframes")}}, the scale and translation are manipulated along the x-axis to make the element slide across the screen.
```
